Cooking with iRules - Security/SSL
==================================

Security vulnerabilities are on the rise. In 2015 alone we saw zero-day
exploits more than double from the previous year (according to
Symantec’s 2015 Internet Security Threat Report), accounting for roughly
one new attack each week in 2015. It certainly doesn’t help that, in
practice, software developers are not classically trained in application
security. As you’re no doubt aware by now, F5 iRules can often “fix”
things that are missing or hard to solve in the existing application
stack. Of course, custom code should never take the place of a good
security product, but arguably there’s no single security device that
can address every vulnerability; and malware and other exploits
generally move faster than software updates and patches. F5 iRules give
you the power and flexibility to fill those gaps, and these labs provide
just a taste of some of that power. In the following, you’ll see a
handful of ways to use iRules to defend and protect against malicious
activity in your enterprise. We’re presenting this guide in the form of
a “cookbook” that you can follow in any order, and as needed to solve
specific problems.

Ultimately though, this is an **incomplete** cookbook. There’s simply no
way to include iRules code for every possible vulnerability, and we’d
rather not hand you a 500-page document. If you need to fix some
specific security issue that we haven’t included here, or simply have
questions, please let the F5 DevCentral community know.

https://devcentral.f5.com

**iRules rock!**

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   module*/module*
